content/home/about-lab.md, before:

+++
# About widget.
widget = "blank"  # See https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.
active = true  # Activate this widget? true/false
weight = 20  # Order that this section will appear in.

#title = "About us"
#subtitle = "Subtitle"
[design]
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns = "1"
+++

We are a new multidisciplinary research group focusing on urban data analysis, geographic data science, and 3D city modelling at the [National University of Singapore (NUS)](http://www.nus.edu.sg).
Our mission is to leverage spatially enabled data for urban applications, catalyse the development of spatial data infrastructures in the context of smart cities, and make sense of big geospatial data and digital twins in the built environment.

The research group is led by Dr {{% mention "filip" %}}, presidential young professor at the [NUS School of Design and Environment](https://www.sde.nus.edu.sg).

![](banner-gbmi.png)

We are involved in several international collaborations such as the [International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS)](https://www.isprs.org) and the [Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC)](https://www.opengeospatial.org).

You are welcome to follow our work through <a itemprop="sameAs" href="http://twitter.com/urbanalyticslab" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><i class="fab fa-twitter"></i> Twitter</a>, our <a href="post/">blog</a>, and our <a href="publication/">papers</a>.

The full list of our interests and key words: Geographical Information Science (GIS), geospatial machine learning, geographic data science, spatial data infrastructure (SDI), 3D city modelling / 3D GIS (some people also call them digital twins), 3D urban analytics, spatial data quality and standardisation (CityJSON, CityGML), Volunteered geoinformation (VGI) and OpenStreetMap (OSM), Building Information modelling (BIM), Geospatial data visualisation, 3D underground data modelling, and 3D cadastre.

![](banner2.png)

Commit message:

Blog post about our activities

content/home/about-lab.md, after:

+++
# About widget.
widget = "blank"  # See https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.
active = true  # Activate this widget? true/false
weight = 20  # Order that this section will appear in.

#title = "About us"
#subtitle = "Subtitle"
[design]
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns = "1"
+++

We are a new multidisciplinary research group focusing on urban data analysis, geographic data science, and 3D city modelling at the [National University of Singapore (NUS)](http://www.nus.edu.sg).
Our mission is to leverage spatially enabled data for urban applications, catalyse the development of spatial data infrastructures in the context of smart cities, and make sense of big geospatial data and digital twins in the built environment.

The research group is led by Dr {{% mention "filip" %}}, [NUS School of Design and Environment](https://www.sde.nus.edu.sg).

![](banner-gbmi.png)

We are involved in several international collaborations such as the [International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS)](https://www.isprs.org) and the [Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC)](https://www.opengeospatial.org).
Within NUS, we collaborate primarily with two sibling labs: the [Building and Urban Data Science (BUDS) Lab](https://www.budslab.org) and the [Integrated Data, Energy Analysis + Simulation (IDEAS) Lab](https://ideaslab.io), forming a constellation of research groups with complementary activities and scales.

You are welcome to follow our work through <a itemprop="sameAs" href="http://twitter.com/urbanalyticslab" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><i class="fab fa-twitter"></i> Twitter</a>, our <a href="post/">blog</a>, and our <a href="publication/">papers</a>.

The full list of our interests and key words: Geographical Information Science (GIS), geospatial machine learning, geographic data science, spatial data infrastructure (SDI), 3D city modelling / 3D GIS / digital twins, 3D urban analytics, spatial data quality and standardisation (CityJSON, CityGML), Volunteered geoinformation (VGI) and OpenStreetMap (OSM), Building Information modelling (BIM) 3D underground data modelling, and 3D cadastre.

![](banner2.png)
