content/opportunities/vacancies.md, before:

---
title: Vacancies
show_date: false

banner:
  image: "NUS_signage_4_r.jpg"
  caption: ""
---

{{< opening >}}

{{< past_openings >}}

## Open applications and general info about positions

If you like what we do and think you can contribute to our research agenda, consider getting in touch!

We appreciate open enquiries from motivated prospective PhD candidates, research assistants, postdoctoral research fellows, and visiting scholars but we expect dedicated applications.
Before getting in touch, please read the sections below and more about us ([here](../../about) and [here](../why-us)).

We would appreciate to learn more about your specific interest and expect you to have at least a basic understanding of what we do and what our research lines are about.
We suggest that you have a look at some of our [publications](/publication), provide your perspective and motivation (e.g. write a few words on how you would take these results further), and let us know how do you envision contributing to our research group.
In your application, please highlight your computational, programming, and geospatial skills.
Your experience should be evident from the courses followed, publications (optional if you are applying to a junior role), and preferably also from your GitHub account as evidence of coding and open science affinity.
From researchers with some experience, having first-author papers in leading venues is expected, while for all roles technical skills are a must.
As an English speaking university, language fluency is also a requirement.

While we appreciate interest, we cannot entertain generic applications without a clear motivation and understanding of the scope of our work.
We are more likely to reply and support prospective candidates who did a bit of research on what we do and those that are able to motivate their wish to join us in particular.
This is most obvious from a tailored and research-focused application pertaining to our Lab (you may also check [this link](../phd) for further details, especially if you are a prospective PhD candidate or visiting scholar).

### Postdocs

Postdoctoral research fellows are expected to be moderately independent, and have a demonstrated record of research excellence and a momentum in publishing (i.e. first-author papers in leading venues). 
In a postdoc job with us, they will spearhead new research initiatives, contribute to funding applications, and provide guidance to junior members.
Our Lab cultivates an environment that accords a degree of freedom in exploring own research ideas, and fosters careers of postdocs in several ways such as involvements in multiple projects and taking part in strategy development, paving the way for a potential faculty position.

We announce available postdoc positions in the openings section above, but you are welcome to send an open application, as sometimes there might be a new funded project just around the corner.
Other than that, we welcome prospective postdoctoral fellows on fellowships (see [the other page](../fellowships/) for some options).

### PhD candidates and research assistants

Working as RA and/or doing a PhD at NUS is a great opportunity to grow as a scientist and follow your passion in research, and our Lab offers a vibrant and stimulating environment for academic growth.
RA positions depend on funded projects.
We announce available RA positions in the openings section above, but you are also welcome to send an open application.
In most cases, computational & programming skills are a must, and an evidence of them (e.g. developed GitHub repositories) will be appreciated.

We accept well-motivated and talented prospective PhD candidates, but we do not admit them directly as the applications are processed by the school.
Before applying, read more [here](../phd).

### Visiting scholars and research visits

Feel free to get in touch with us if you are interested in conducting a research visit at the NUS Urban Analytics Lab.
If you are a prospective visiting PhD student, please have a look at [this link](../phd).

Please prepare a short proposal of the research you plan to conduct in our Lab together with a timeline and other specifics.
Feel free to have a look at our website and recent papers, and think of a common overlap or complementary research direction, which will ensure a mutually beneficial research visit.
Potential contributions to our research group are also relevant, as visiting fellowships should be a two-way relationship.
Every year, we have bandwidth and space to accept only a few visiting researchers.
Thus, we prefer to prioritise those who work on research that is closely aligned with our activities, and ensure a complementary fit and contribution to our projects and team, and at the same time making sure that you get the most of such a visit for your academic trajectory.

Depending on your country of residence and position, sometimes there are opportunities for a funded stay, such as the [French-Singaporean research collaboration programme Merlion](https://www.campusfrance.org/fr/merlion), [China Scholarship Council](https://www.chinesescholarshipcouncil.com), and the [US Fulbright Program](https://www.cies.org).

External (non-NUS) PhD students may carry out a portion of their doctoral research at our Lab in the form of a research visit.
Please refer to the [NUS Non-Graduating Programme](http://www.nus.edu.sg/registrar/prospective-students/non-graduating/research) for the framework of the scheme.

## Opportunities for master students

Every year, we work with a number of highly motivated, independent, and talented (primarily master) students to work on graduation projects (theses/dissertations) in our research domain.
That is the main channel how students work with us.

Such mode of work has been mutually quite productive, as above average quality projects [have been published in top journals and conferences](/publication), enhancing students' CVs and boosting their applications to PhD programmes.
At the same time, we are happy that the [multidisciplinary spectrum and interest of the students]({{< ref "/post/2020-11-new-student-researchers/index.md" >}}) and the research has enriched the breadth of expertise and knowledge of our group.
Further, the students have used this opportunity to advance their analytical, coding, and research skills, and build proficiency in a new topic of their interest.

If you are looking for a topic, have a look at [examples of completed theses](/opportunities/student-projects#theses-dissertations-and-capstone-projects) to get an impression of the scope.
It is possible to discuss a topic that will suit your background and interest.

## Students from outside NUS looking for an internship 

In principle, we are not able to offer internships to students who are not studying at our university.
However, there are some exceptions depending on bilateral agreements and similar.
For example, we are accepting undergraduates from universities in Germany thanks to the [DAAD RISE Worldwide program](https://www.daad.de/rise/de/rise-weltweit/).
If your university or country has a similar programme, or it is associated with NUS in one way or another, or if you have another funding arrangement to come and spend time in Singapore, contact us to enquiry whether we are able to welcome you and have you join an ongoing project.

## Contact

Are some of the options listed above of your interest or you have a general enquiry?
Feel free to get in touch with us through email (listed on the [home page](/#contact)).
While we appreciate interest, we cannot attend to generic applications without a clear motivation and understanding of the scope of our work.


## National University of Singapore

To learn more about our university, please visit [its website](http://www.nus.edu.sg).

{{< youtube iMgWJD8a2Xc >}}

Commit message:

QS news and PhD application guide comprehensive update

content/opportunities/vacancies.md, after:

---
title: Vacancies
show_date: false

banner:
  image: "NUS_signage_4_r.jpg"
  caption: ""
---

{{< opening >}}

{{< past_openings >}}

## Open applications and general info about positions

If you like what we do and think you can contribute to our research agenda, consider getting in touch!

We appreciate open enquiries from motivated prospective PhD candidates, research assistants, postdoctoral research fellows, and visiting scholars but we expect dedicated applications.
Before getting in touch, please read the sections below and more about us ([here](../../about) and [here](../why-us)).
Most importantly, please read [our guide for prospective applicants](/opportunities/application-guide/).

We would appreciate to learn more about your specific interest and expect you to have at least a basic understanding of what we do and what our research lines are about.
We suggest that you have a look at some of our [publications](/publication), provide your perspective and motivation (e.g. write a few words on how you would take these results further), and let us know how do you envision contributing to our research group.
In your application, please highlight your computational, programming, and geospatial skills.
Your experience should be evident from the courses followed, publications (optional if you are applying to a junior role), and preferably also from your GitHub account as evidence of coding and open science affinity.
From researchers with some experience, having first-author papers in leading venues is expected, while for all roles technical skills are a must.
As an English speaking university, language fluency is also a requirement.

While we appreciate interest, we cannot entertain generic applications without a clear motivation and understanding of the scope of our work.
We are more likely to reply and support prospective candidates who did a bit of research on what we do and those that are able to motivate their wish to join us in particular.
This is most obvious from a tailored and research-focused application pertaining to our Lab (you may also check [this link](../application-guide) for further details, especially if you are a prospective PhD candidate or visiting scholar).

### Postdocs

Postdoctoral research fellows are expected to be moderately independent, and have a demonstrated record of research excellence and a momentum in publishing (i.e. first-author papers in leading venues). 
In a postdoc job with us, they will spearhead new research initiatives, contribute to funding applications, and provide guidance to junior members.
Our Lab cultivates an environment that accords a degree of freedom in exploring own research ideas, and fosters careers of postdocs in several ways such as involvements in multiple projects and taking part in strategy development, paving the way for a potential faculty position.

We announce available postdoc positions in the openings section above, but you are welcome to send an open application, as sometimes there might be a new funded project just around the corner.
Other than that, we welcome prospective postdoctoral fellows on fellowships (see [the other page](../fellowships/) for some options).

### PhD candidates and research assistants

Working as RA and/or doing a PhD at NUS is a great opportunity to grow as a scientist and follow your passion in research, and our Lab offers a vibrant and stimulating environment for academic growth.
RA positions depend on funded projects.
We announce available RA positions in the openings section above, but you are also welcome to send an open application.
In most cases, computational & programming skills are a must, and an evidence of them (e.g. developed GitHub repositories) will be appreciated.

We accept well-motivated and talented prospective PhD candidates, but we do not admit them directly as the applications are processed by the school.
Before applying, please read [our guide for prospective applicants](/opportunities/application-guide/).

### Visiting scholars and research visits

Feel free to get in touch with us if you are interested in conducting a research visit at the NUS Urban Analytics Lab.
If you are a prospective visiting PhD scholar or researcher, please have a look at [our guide for prospective applicants](/opportunities/application-guide/).

Depending on your country of residence and position, sometimes there are opportunities for a funded stay, such as the [French-Singaporean research collaboration programme Merlion](https://www.campusfrance.org/fr/merlion), [China Scholarship Council](https://www.chinesescholarshipcouncil.com), and the [US Fulbright Program](https://www.cies.org).

External (non-NUS) PhD students may carry out a portion of their doctoral research at our Lab in the form of a research visit.
Please refer to the [NUS Non-Graduating Programme](http://www.nus.edu.sg/registrar/prospective-students/non-graduating/research) for the framework of the scheme.

## Opportunities for master students

Every year, we work with a number of highly motivated, independent, and talented (primarily master) students to work on graduation projects (theses/dissertations) in our research domain.
That is the main channel how students work with us.

Such mode of work has been mutually quite productive, as above average quality projects [have been published in top journals and conferences](/publication), enhancing students' CVs and boosting their applications to PhD programmes.
At the same time, we are happy that the [multidisciplinary spectrum and interest of the students]({{< ref "/post/2020-11-new-student-researchers/index.md" >}}) and the research has enriched the breadth of expertise and knowledge of our group.
Further, the students have used this opportunity to advance their analytical, coding, and research skills, and build proficiency in a new topic of their interest.

If you are looking for a topic, have a look at [examples of completed theses](/opportunities/student-projects#theses-dissertations-and-capstone-projects) to get an impression of the scope.
It is possible to discuss a topic that will suit your background and interest.

## Students from outside NUS looking for an internship 

In principle, we are not able to offer internships to students who are not studying at our university.
However, there are some exceptions depending on bilateral agreements and similar.
For example, we are accepting undergraduates from universities in Germany thanks to the [DAAD RISE Worldwide program](https://www.daad.de/rise/de/rise-weltweit/).
If your university or country has a similar programme, or it is associated with NUS in one way or another, or if you have another funding arrangement to come and spend time in Singapore, contact us to enquiry whether we are able to welcome you and have you join an ongoing project.

## Contact

Are some of the options listed above of your interest or you have a general enquiry?
Feel free to get in touch with us through email (listed on the [home page](/#contact)).
While we appreciate interest, we cannot attend to generic applications without a clear motivation and understanding of the scope of our work.


## National University of Singapore

To learn more about our university, please visit [its website](http://www.nus.edu.sg).

{{< youtube iMgWJD8a2Xc >}}
