content/post/2020-04-osm-on-aws-athena/index.md, before:

---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "Leveraging cloud technology for GIS analysis with OpenStreetMap"
subtitle: "To increase accessibility, ease of maintenance and enable efficient analysis
 of the open-source OpenStreetMap data, we look at leveraging cloud
  technology."
summary: "To increase accessibility, ease of maintenance and enable efficient analysis
 of the open-source OpenStreetMap data, we look at leveraging cloud
  technology."
authors: [yoong-shin]
tags: [AWS, Athena, OpenStreetMap, engineering, short read]
categories: []
date: 2020-04-21T14:55:01+08:00
lastmod: 2020-04-21T14:55:01+08:00
featured: false
draft: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []
---


With OpenStreetMap being one of the most frequently updated open-source datasets for GIS analysis, it is has become popular among map enthusiasts and GIS professions. Due to its high volume and frequent updates, cloud technology could be leveraged to provide an efficient environment that is easily accessible and maintained. 

Being a major player in cloud platform, 
[Amazon Web Services (AWS) hosts a registry of publicly available datasets
](https://registry.opendata.aws/)  [^1] accessible via its resources. Among the
 datasets relevant to GIS analysis, [OpenStreetMap planet data](https
 ://registry.opendata.aws/osm/) was one of them.
  [Amazon Athena](https://console.aws.amazon.com/athena/home) [^2] service makes the OpenStreetMap planet data easily accessible for query, analysis and export. 

This post will detail the steps to set up the OpenStreetMap planet table on Athena, mention a couple of useful features of Athena and demonstrate the automation of the weekly refresh of the latest OpenStreetMap planet data made available on AWS.

### Pre-requisites
- Have an AWS account, with necessary permissions to AWS S3 and Athena

### Setting up planet table on Athena

When using Athena for the first time, there will be a warning that requires an AWS S3 location for storing query results. If there isn't a designated bucket created already, do so; else we just click on the warning for a  form to specify the bucket location.

{{< figure src="s3-bucket-warning.png" title="Set up S3 Bucket for Query Output" lightbox="true" >}}

Using the query editor, we create the `default` database using the SQL query below. 
```
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS `default`;
```

Then we will create the `planet` table with the following query:
```
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE planet (
  id BIGINT,
  type STRING,
  tags MAP<STRING,STRING>,
  lat DECIMAL(9,7), -- for nodes
  lon DECIMAL(10,7), -- for nodes
  nds ARRAY<STRUCT<ref: BIGINT>>, -- for ways
  members ARRAY<STRUCT<type: STRING, ref: BIGINT, role: STRING>>, -- for relations
  changeset BIGINT,
  timestamp TIMESTAMP,
  uid BIGINT,
  user STRING,
  version BIGINT
)
STORED AS ORCFILE
LOCATION 's3://osm-pds/planet/';
```

After this, we can do a quick preview of the table to check on the imported data. 
```
SELECT * FROM planet LIMIT 10;
```

### Useful Features of Athena

Athena offers some useful features such as Saved Queries, where we could save queries we often use. 

{{< figure src="save-query.png" title="Save Frequently Used Query" lightbox="true" >}}

Also, the Query History shows all prior query attempts and their outcome
. This is particularly useful to get an idea of the volume of data we have queried.

{{< figure src="query-history.png" title="Query History for Usage Review" lightbox="true" >}}

Very often, it is useful saved the query output as a table or view, or export to be downloaded. The supported export formats are as shown below:

{{< figure src="supported-export-format.png" title="Anthena Supports Multiple Export Formats" lightbox="true" >}}

The output files are available in the S3 bucket configured earlier. 

As this post is being written, AWS Athena export supports export format in `Parquet`, `ORC`, `AVRO`, `CSV`, `JSON` and `TSV`. 

When deciding the output format, it is useful to keep in mind these considerations[^3]: 
- Read/Write Intensive & Query Pattern
- Compression
- Schema Evaluation
- Nested Column
- Platform 

### Automate refresh of planet data

Not only the set up of OpenStreetMap planet on Athena is easy, its maintenance and periodic refresh of the latest data can also be automated with a simple script. 

Although some OpenStreetMap sources on some websites are updated daily, the OpenStreetMap dataset on AWS is only updated once a week. When that happens, we want to update the planet table for the latest version. Instead of performing the update manually, we can automate the boring stuff, set up 
[crontab](https://crontab.guru/) to run the following script to perform the update. 

The script requires 
[AWS SDK for Python (Boto3)](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-python/), 
[AWS Boto3](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/index.html) 
and [PyAthena](https://github.com/laughingman7743/PyAthena/). 

```python3
from pyathena import connect

cursor = connect(aws_access_key_id='XXXXX',
                 aws_secret_access_key='XXXXX',
                 s3_staging_dir='s3://bucket-for-staging/',
                 region_name='ap-southeast-1').cursor()

create_db_sql = """
    CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS default;
"""

drop_table_sql = """
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS planet;
"""

refresh_planet_sql = """
    CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE planet (
      id BIGINT,
      type STRING,
      tags MAP<STRING,STRING>,
      lat DECIMAL(9,7), 
      lon DECIMAL(10,7), 
      nds ARRAY<STRUCT<ref: BIGINT>>,
      members ARRAY<STRUCT<type: STRING, ref: BIGINT, role: STRING>>,
      changeset BIGINT,
      timestamp TIMESTAMP,
      uid BIGINT,
      user STRING,
      version BIGINT
    )
    STORED AS ORCFILE
    LOCATION 's3://osm-pds/planet/';
"""

cursor.execute(create_db_sql)
cursor.execute(drop_table_sql)

try:
    cursor.execute(refresh_planet_sql)
    print("Table `planet` is updated.")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)

print(cursor.description)
```

### Pros and Cons

There are a lot of advantages leveraging cloud technology like Athena on AWS:

- Lower IT DevOps for maintenance
- Increase accessibility, availability, and scalability
- Increase efficiency in performance and analysis

That said cloud platforms are not without its disadvantages:
- Risk of security and privacy of private data and intellectual properties
- Possibility of unforeseen higher cost due to careless setup and cloud usage

### Summary

In summary, cloud companies like Amazon and Google could enable more efficient analysis and higher performance of a small GIS team or individual GIS profession. To counter the risk of exposure of private data and/or intellectual properties, measures such as assigning only the minimum permissions required and enabling multi-factor authentication could ensure our private data and intellectual properties are protected. 



[^1]: [OpenStreetMap on AWS](https://docs.opendata.aws/osm-pds/readme.html)
[^2]: [AWS Athena Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/index.html)
[^3]: [Demystifying Hadoop Data Format](https://towardsdatascience.com/demystify-hadoop-data-formats-avro-orc-and-parquet-e428709cf3bb)

Commit message:

post: osm on aws athena modified ending

content/post/2020-04-osm-on-aws-athena/index.md, after:

---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "Leveraging cloud technology for GIS analysis with OpenStreetMap"
subtitle: "To increase accessibility, ease of maintenance and enable efficient analysis
 of the open-source OpenStreetMap data, we look at leveraging cloud
  technology."
summary: "To increase accessibility, ease of maintenance and enable efficient analysis
 of the open-source OpenStreetMap data, we look at leveraging cloud
  technology."
authors: [yoong-shin]
tags: [AWS, Athena, OpenStreetMap, engineering, short read]
categories: []
date: 2020-04-21T14:55:01+08:00
lastmod: 2020-04-21T14:55:01+08:00
featured: false
draft: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []
---


With OpenStreetMap being one of the most frequently updated open-source datasets for GIS analysis, it is has become popular among map enthusiasts and GIS professions. Due to its high volume and frequent updates, cloud technology could be leveraged to provide an efficient environment that is easily accessible and maintained. 

Being a major player in cloud platform, 
[Amazon Web Services (AWS) hosts a registry of publicly available datasets
](https://registry.opendata.aws/)  [^1] accessible via its resources. Among the
 datasets relevant to GIS analysis, [OpenStreetMap planet data](https
 ://registry.opendata.aws/osm/) was one of them.
  [Amazon Athena](https://console.aws.amazon.com/athena/home) [^2] service makes the OpenStreetMap planet data easily accessible for query, analysis and export. 

This post will detail the steps to set up the OpenStreetMap planet table on Athena, mention a couple of useful features of Athena and demonstrate the automation of the weekly refresh of the latest OpenStreetMap planet data made available on AWS.

### Pre-requisites
- Have an AWS account, with necessary permissions to AWS S3 and Athena

### Setting up planet table on Athena

When using Athena for the first time, there will be a warning that requires an AWS S3 location for storing query results. If there isn't a designated bucket created already, do so; else we just click on the warning for a  form to specify the bucket location.

{{< figure src="s3-bucket-warning.png" title="Set up S3 Bucket for Query Output" lightbox="true" >}}

Using the query editor, we create the `default` database using the SQL query below. 
```sql
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS `default`;
```

Then we will create the `planet` table with the following query:
```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE planet (
  id BIGINT,
  type STRING,
  tags MAP<STRING,STRING>,
  lat DECIMAL(9,7), -- for nodes
  lon DECIMAL(10,7), -- for nodes
  nds ARRAY<STRUCT<ref: BIGINT>>, -- for ways
  members ARRAY<STRUCT<type: STRING, ref: BIGINT, role: STRING>>, -- for relations
  changeset BIGINT,
  timestamp TIMESTAMP,
  uid BIGINT,
  user STRING,
  version BIGINT
)
STORED AS ORCFILE
LOCATION 's3://osm-pds/planet/';
```

After this, we can do a quick preview of the table to check on the imported data. 

```sql
SELECT * FROM planet LIMIT 10;
```

{{< figure src="featured.png" title="Preview Table" lightbox="true" >}}


### Useful Features of Athena

Athena offers some useful features such as Saved Queries, where we could save queries we often use. 

{{< figure src="save-query.png" title="Save Frequently Used Query" lightbox="true" >}}

Also, the Query History shows all prior query attempts and their outcome
. This is particularly useful to get an idea of the volume of data we have queried.

{{< figure src="query-history.png" title="Query History for Usage Review" lightbox="true" >}}

Very often, it is useful saved the query output as a table or view, or export to be downloaded. The supported export formats are as shown below:

{{< figure src="supported-export-format.png" title="Anthena Supports Multiple Export Formats" lightbox="true" >}}

The output files are available in the S3 bucket configured earlier. 

As this post is being written, AWS Athena export supports export format in `Parquet`, `ORC`, `AVRO`, `CSV`, `JSON` and `TSV`. 

When deciding the output format, it is useful to keep in mind these considerations[^3]: 
- Read/Write Intensive & Query Pattern
- Compression
- Schema Evaluation
- Nested Column
- Platform 

### Automate refresh of planet data

Not only the set up of OpenStreetMap planet on Athena is easy, its maintenance and periodic refresh of the latest data can also be automated with a simple script. 

Although some OpenStreetMap sources on some websites are updated daily, the OpenStreetMap dataset on AWS is only updated once a week. When that happens, we want to update the planet table for the latest version. Instead of performing the update manually, we can automate the boring stuff, set up 
[crontab](https://crontab.guru/) to run the following script to perform the update. 

The script requires 
[AWS SDK for Python (Boto3)](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-python/), 
[AWS Boto3](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/index.html) 
and [PyAthena](https://github.com/laughingman7743/PyAthena/). 

```python3
from pyathena import connect

cursor = connect(aws_access_key_id='XXXXX',
                 aws_secret_access_key='XXXXX',
                 s3_staging_dir='s3://bucket-for-staging/',
                 region_name='ap-southeast-1').cursor()

create_db_sql = """
    CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS default;
"""

drop_table_sql = """
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS planet;
"""

refresh_planet_sql = """
    CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE planet (
      id BIGINT,
      type STRING,
      tags MAP<STRING,STRING>,
      lat DECIMAL(9,7), 
      lon DECIMAL(10,7), 
      nds ARRAY<STRUCT<ref: BIGINT>>,
      members ARRAY<STRUCT<type: STRING, ref: BIGINT, role: STRING>>,
      changeset BIGINT,
      timestamp TIMESTAMP,
      uid BIGINT,
      user STRING,
      version BIGINT
    )
    STORED AS ORCFILE
    LOCATION 's3://osm-pds/planet/';
"""

cursor.execute(create_db_sql)
cursor.execute(drop_table_sql)

try:
    cursor.execute(refresh_planet_sql)
    print("Table `planet` is updated.")
except Exception as e:
    print(e)

print(cursor.description)
```
 ### Other Considerations
 
Working with cloud technology often means having a 3rd party hosting our
 private data and/or intellectual properties. We should be mindful to choose
 the region/country where these properties are judicially bound. 

Last but not least, it is also important to follow security best practices
, such as enforcing secure and complex passwords, assigning only the minimum
 permissions required, enabling multi-factor authentication, to ensure our private data and intellectual properties are protected. 



[^1]: [OpenStreetMap on AWS](https://docs.opendata.aws/osm-pds/readme.html)
[^2]: [AWS Athena Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/index.html)
[^3]: [Demystifying Hadoop Data Format](https://towardsdatascience.com/demystify-hadoop-data-formats-avro-orc-and-parquet-e428709cf3bb)
